
HDFS, Sqoop and Hive

Storing, querying, indexing, transferring, streaming, and messaging

 
HDFS 			- Distributedistributed, portable filesystem, - High throughput streaming data access to applications that processes large datasets.
				  HDFS's main benefits are that it is fault-tolerant and designed to be run on commodity hardware
 
Mapreduce 		- Distributed, fault tolerant framework designed for processing large quantities of data stored in HDFS, in parallel on large clusters using oommodity hardware
 
Apache Hive 	- Which is a data warehouse for managing large datasets stored in HDFS. Hive provides a HiveQL language
				  The data could be stored in one of the several supported formats, such as Avro , ORC, RCFile , Parquet , and SequenceFile.
			 	  Default is TextFile.
				
Apache HBase	- Hadoop database is called HBase. HBase is a distributed, scalable NoSQL data store providing real-time access to big data.

Apache Sqoop    - Apache Sqoop, a tool for bulk transfer of data between relational databases such as Oracle database and MySQL database and HDFS.
				  Sqoop also supports bulk transfer of data from RDBMS to Hive and HBase.
 
Apache flume    - Apache Flume, a distributed, fault-tolerant framework for collecting, aggregating, and streaming large datasets, 
				  Which are typically log data, but could be from other data sources such as relational databases.
 
Apache Avro  	- Apache Avro, a schema based data serialization system providing varied data structures. 
				  Avro provides a compact, fast, binary data format typically used to store persistent data.
				  
Apache Parquet	- Data format.
				  Parquet is a columnar data storage format providing complex data structures and efficient compression and encoding on columnar data to any Hadoop ecosystem project.
				  
Apache Kafka	- Distributed publish-subscribe messaging system.
				  Fast, scalable and durable
				  Kafka is designed to process large quantities of data and provide high throughput rates.

Apache Solr		- Distributed, scalable, and fault-tolerant framework.
				  Solr provides indexing and data integration for large datasets stored in HDFS, Hive, HBase, or relational databases. 
				  Solr is Lucene-based and one of the most commonly used search engines. 

Apache mahout	- Framework for machine learning applications.
				  Mahout supports several machine-learning systems, such as classification, clustering, and recommender systems.

				  MapReduce processes data stored in HDFS
				  HBase and Hive store data in HDFS by default
				  Sqoop could be used to bulk transfer data from a relational database management system (RDBMS) to HDFS, Hive, and HBase.
				  Sqoop also supports bulk transfer of data from HDFS to a relational database
				  Flume, which is based on sources and sinks, supports several kinds of sources and sinks with the emphasis being on streaming data in real time in contrast to one-time bulk transferring with Sqoop.
				  Flume is typically used to stream log data and the sink could be HDFS, Hive, HBase, or Solr.
				  Solr could be used to index data from HDFS, Hive, HBase, and RDBMS.
				  HDFS stores data in a disk filesystem and is in fact an abstract filesystem on top of the disk filesystem.
				  Solr also stores data in a disk filesystem by default, but can also store the indexed data in HDFS.
				  
				  
				  
Amazon EMR
				  
They must contain only lowercase letters, numbers, periods (.), and hyphens (-).
They cannot end in numbers.


Secure Shell protocol

https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/
https://console.aws.amazon.com/elasticmapreduce/

Amazon Elastic MapReduce (Amazon EMR) is a web service that enables businesses, researchers, data analysts, and developers to easily and cost-effectively process vast amounts of data


Create cluster

Clustername, (logging) , launch mode (cluster, Step execution), Software configuration ( Core hadoop, HBase, Presto, Spark)

Core Hadoop: Hadoop 2.8.4 with Ganglia 3.7.2, Hive 2.3.3, Hue 4.2.0, Mahout 0.13.0, Pig 0.17.0, and Tez 0.8.4
HBase: HBase 1.4.6 with Ganglia 3.7.2, Hadoop 2.8.4, Hive 2.3.3, Hue 4.2.0, Phoenix 4.14.0, and ZooKeeper 3.4.12
Presto: Presto 0.206 with Hadoop 2.8.4 HDFS and Hive 2.3.3 Metastore
Spark: Spark 2.3.1 on Hadoop 2.8.4 YARN with Ganglia 3.7.2 and Zeppelin 0.7.3








				  
				  

 
 
 
 